3d basics (#132)
johko/computer-vision-course: chapters/en/Unit 8 - 3D Vision, Scene Rendering and Reconstruction/Terminologies and Basics/CameraModels.mdx

# Camera models

## Pinhole Cameras

![Pinhole camera](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/3/3b/Pinhole-camera.svg/640px-Pinhole-camera.svg.png)
from https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Pinhole-camera.svg

The simplest kind of camera - perhaps one that you have made yourself - consists of a lightproof box, with a small hole made in one side and a screen or a photographic film on the other. Light rays passing through the hole generate an inverted image on the rear wall of the box.

This simple model for a camera is commonly used in 3D graphics applications.

### Camera axes conventions

![Blender camera axes conventions](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/2mkm4eza8e484o3yh7i1o/camera_axes.png?rlkey=st6e6jsm86wbt09q7t2vy9lpd&raw=1)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

# Camera models

### Pinhole cameras

> ![Pinhole camera](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/3/3b/Pinhole-camera.svg/640px-Pinhole-camera.svg.png)

Author: Uploaded images

> <sub><sup> from https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Pinhole-camera.svg </sup></sub>

Author: Removed tags

The simplest kind of camera - perhaps one that you have made yourself - consists of a lightproof box, with a small hole made in one side and a screen or a photographic film on the other. Light rays passing through the hole generate an inverted image on the rear wall of the box.

This simple model for a camera is commonly used in 3D graphics applications.

### Camera axes conventions

> ![](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/2mkm4eza8e484o3yh7i1o/camera_axes.png?rlkey=st6e6jsm86wbt09q7t2vy9lpd&raw=1)

Author: Former caption now as alt tag

<sub><sup> Blender camera axes conventions </sup></sub>

> Again, there are a number of different conventions for the direction of the camera axes. Here we will follow the convention of Blender, where the camera points along the negative Z-axis, the camera X axis points to the left (looking from the camera) and the camera Y axis points up.

Author: Removed

$$
K = \begin{pmatrix}
f_x & 0 & c_x  \\
0 & f_y & c_y  \\
0 & 0 & 1  \\
\end{pmatrix}
$$
 
In order to apply this to a point $$p=[x,y,z]$$ to a point in 3D space, 
we multiply the point by the camera matrix $$K @ p$$ to give a new 3x1 vector 
$$[u,v,w]$$. This is a homogeneous vector in 2D, but where the last component isn't 1. To find the position of the point in the image plane we have to divide 
the first two coordinates by the last one, to give the point $$[u/w, v/w]$$.

Whilst this is the textbook definition of the camera matrix, if we use the Blender camera convention it will flip the image left to right and up-down (as points in front of the camera will have negative z-values). One potential way to fix this is to change the signs of some of the elements of the camera matrix

$$
K = \begin{pmatrix}
-f_x & 0 & c_x  \\
0 & -f_y & c_y  \\
0 & 0 & 1  \\
\end{pmatrix}
$$

### Camera Transformation Matrices

Usually, the camera isn't just at the origin, but we have to transform points from world coordinates to coordinates relative to the camera. To do so, we first apply the world to camera matrix to the points, and then the camera matrix.

### More complex camera models

> More complicated camera models are possible, modelling the distortion generated by a real lens. For discussion of such models see a standard text such as https://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/~vgg/hzbook/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More complicated camera models are possible, modeling the distortion generated by a real lens. For a discussion of such models, see a [standard text](https://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/~vgg/hzbook/).
```

# Camera models

## Pinhole Cameras

![Pinhole camera](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-vision/course-assets/resolve/main/Pinhole-camera.png)

> from https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Pinhole-camera.svg

Reviewer: You can give this reference in above alt text or bottom of the page

The simplest kind of camera - perhaps one that you have made yourself - consists of a lightproof box, with a small hole made in one side and a screen or a photographic film on the other. 
Light rays passing through the hole generate an inverted image on the rear wall of the box.

This simple model for a camera is commonly used in 3D graphics applications.

### Camera axes conventions

> ![Blender camera axes conventions](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-vision/course-assets/resolve/main/axes_handedness.png)

Reviewer 2: Can you put the reference at the bottom of the page?

Author: I generated the image in Blender / gimp
